The text I analyzed using the application "Tone Analyzer" is my critical paper on Cristina Pantoja-Hidalgo's "A Book of Dreams." I quoted a lot from the novel, so the tone analyzer probably took into account the "mood" or "sentiment" of the novel as well. Since I analyzed a critical (academic) paper, it is expected that the results under "Language Style" would be "analytical" (0.76 - very likely). However, it also gave a more insightful result: "Tentative" (0.51- likely). Defined in the app as "a person's degree of inhibition. Higher value, more likely to be perceived as questionable, doubtful, limited, or debatable," this result surprised me given that the paper was supposed to argue or convince the reader of a particular point. However, reviewing the results on the "Sentence-level", the sentences that were likely or most likely "tentative" are the passages quoted from the novel, or sentences where I cited from another critic or theorist. This is interesting to me since it raises questions more on the novel which I wrote about; or rather, actually strengthens the arguments I made in my paper, since my point was to unearth the anxiety and disability underlying the colorful imagery and hopefulness of the text.
Under "Emotion," the application analyzed it to be mostly "joy" (0.55 - likely). Initially, it surprised me that this would be the resulting emotion given that the language style is supposedly "analytical" and "tentative". Reviewing the results on a 'sentence-level" though, the "joy" aspect was concentrated under a particular section in my paper entitled "Spaces: Faith and Desire." I think that the app construed "faith" and "desire" as "joyful" words, although in literary studies "faith" and "desire" (as well as other words related to them) aren't necessarily joyful -- or positive -- words. 
Lastly, under "Social Tendencies," my paper was categorized as leaning mostly towards "openness" (0.99 - most likely), defined as "[if having a] higher value, writer most likely perceived as open to experiences for a variety of activities." This result could be attributed in large part to the fact that the document was a critical paper on a novel, and therefore has to unpack a lot of ideas, theories, and events. This would probably be the most problematic result for me, since the numerical value (0.99) is too big to be nuanced or accurate in its analysis, and I would say that the app couldn't properly analyze the document. Looking at the other categories, the "social tendencies" aspect seems to be catered more towards social media entries like tweets, since it connotes how it "engages" with other people. This poses problems for the application itself, when used to analyze texts like academic papers and other forms of literature, which have a more nuanced way of "engaging" with people (or the reader); in which the "openness" result won't be enough to provide any significant insights. 
Ultimately, I think the application has a lot of potential in unearthing hidden insights about the writer, although it does seem a bit reductive at times. Given that the program was to analyze the "sentiment" of the writer, I guess it could use a bit more consideration in terms of what kind of documents, and maybe have a different analyzing process for "big" texts (like papers, novels, stories) with regards to their form (since academic papers are obviously different from a creative short story). In this, the "writer" could gain more detailed results in his/her sentiments as a "writer-critic", "creative writer", "poet", "blogger", etc. 
