ORIGINAL TEXT:

Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Half of a Yellow Sun talks about the Biafran war which happened in 1960’s Nigeria, exposing its effects on the people who lived through it and on their relationships with one another. However, as a historical novel, it presents itself as derived from a historical event, and only that – it derives from it, but does not actually tell history accurately. As an intervention in actual, “objective” history, it risks being read as simply an author’s take on a fixed historical event, as another way of looking back in time.
In his October 1984 speech, “Of Other Spaces,” Michel Foucault declares the present epoch to be an epoch of space, in contrast to the 19th century when the focus was given on history.  He claims that structuralism gave rise to a search for a new method of relating elements in a way that juxtaposes them against one another, instead of placing them on a linear temporal axis. “We are at a moment,” he says, “when our experience of the world is less that of a life developing through time than that of a network that connects points and intersects with its own skein” (22).
With this turn from time to space in mind, Adichie’s novel then becomes less of a historical novel than a “geographical” one. It becomes not a reimagination of a particular event in history but of that historical event’s geographical space. A wholly new narrative is created in that particular space where the actual historical event took place, without damaging historical continuity. In this manner, the novel focuses on creating new narratives with complete fidelity to the material and historical conditions of the event, thus, dismissing the claim of its complete disjunction from reality. As a fictional work taking place in the same space as that of a historical event, the novel enables us to see both that space and that historical event from a new perspective.
This paper argues that Adichie’s Half of a Yellow Sun frames Southeast Nigeria as a kind of heterotopia, the space where the main characters’, along with all the other Biafrans’, hopes for home are projected. This reconstitution of home in the form of the Republic of Biafra was caused by, and is being interfered by, the unequal spatial practice exercised by Imperial Britain on Nigeria, its neo-colony.
Robert Tally asserts in his introduction to Spatiality that this “spatial turn” during the post-war 20th century was brought upon by a new aesthetic sensibility that is postmodernism, borrowing from the theoretical framework of poststructuralism. “Moreover,” he adds, “the transformational effects of postcolonialism, globalization, and the rise of ever more advanced information technologies helped to put space in the foreground, as traditional spatial or geographic limits were erased or redrawn” (3).
By shifting the focus from historical continuity to spatial conditions of the event, we come to realize that the Biafran war and the constitution of the Republic of Biafra is not simply a phase that makes up a part of Nigeria today. Instead, we are able to zoom in and see that the war is primarily arbitrary and only made necessary by the material forces of the space in that given point in history. This constitution of a new space, a new nation, is a result of, in Benedict Anderson’s words, a “spontaneous distillation of a complex ‘crossing’ of discrete historical forces” (4).
The novel started with an exposition of the three characters, from whose points of view the story was told, experiencing a certain displacement of home. Home, in this case, is understood in its everyday sense, as a place given of great value, where an individual’s most valued objects are.
All the three characters quite literally experience this displacement: Ugwu, leaving the home of his father and his three wives; Olanna, becoming uncomfortable in the house where she and her family lives, eventually moving out to Odenigbo’s place; and Richard, who we see to be searching for home away from his geographical (and, in a way, temporal) home, that is, England.
In Mary Douglas’ paper about the idea of home, she says that “Home is located in space, but it is not necessarily in a fixed space.” The conception of home must necessarily be a space, because it “starts by bringing some space under control,” but it does not have to be fixed. There only has to be the impression of regularity on the perceived space of home – in other words, there must be routine in home (289). This can be also be seen during the first three chapters of the novel: in Ugwu when he was starting to get used to the life of Odenigbo and is feeling a bit possessive of him; in Olanna when she started to realize that even though she still has trouble fitting in with Odenigbo’s friends, what matters more is the relationship that the two of them have; and in Richard when he realized that “it was the first time in his life [that] he felt as if he could belong somewhere” (Adichie 82).
In his 1964 book The Poetics of Space, Gaston Bachelard proposes a new way of looking at space. He talks about “topoanalysis,” which he defines as the study of the “individual subject’s imaginative response to the experience of those spaces” that we inhabit. As the “systematic psychological study of the sites of our intimate lives,” it focuses on the spaces that we attach value upon, thus, our home. In considering a space as home, there are material protective values and imagined values; and it is the imagined values that soon become dominant because, as Bachelard claims, spaces are inhabited “with all the partiality of the imagination.” Bachelard argues that “all really inhabited space bears the essence of the notion of home,” and that we give values to these inhabited spaces because of its ability to protect us, because of it being “the non-I that protexts the I” (Tally 115; Bachelard xxxii,5,8). Home here is imagined as something that provides us protection from “outside” forces.
Moreover, Bachelard argues that home is “one of the greatest powers of integration for the thoughts, memories and dreams of mankind,” and that the binding principle of this integration is the daydream. Aside from being a space, a home must also have some structure in time, and it is the daydream that serves as the individual’s return to his/her memories of previous homes, memories of protection, facilitated in itself by a certain sence of home and protection in the present (Bachelard 5-6; Douglas 289). With this knowledge, the main characters’ constant daydreams in the novel, then, become strong signs of displacement from their previous homes.
Ugwu who had to learn everything about Odenigbo’s house fast, easily became comfortable in his new house when he started daydreaming about his old home the instant his master left to play tennis (Adichie 9). Olanna reminisced about the time when she and Kainene could easily know what each other is thinking, and how this does not happen to them nowadays because Kainene has “[anchored] herself firmly in a distant place so that they could not drift back together” (Adichie 31,37). Richard, while he was out with Kainene in her garden in Port Harcourt, was reminded of the view from their house in England, where his father used to recite to him a poem he liked to call “Blue remembered hills” (Adichie 77).
If topoanalysis studies an individual’s imaginative response to a particular space, Lefebvre’s concept of space studies the same space as a social product (thus, having a history of its production) and “a means of production … control, and hence of domination, of power” (26, 46).
In understanding space as a social product and as a means of production, Lefebvre formed a conceptual triad: spatial practice, which defines how a society simultaneously makes use of its space to define the space itself in which that society operates; representations of space, or the conceptualized space, where space is organized “towards a system of verbal (and therefore intellectually worked out) signs; and representational space, or the lived space, where the “inhabitants” and “users” of the space passively experience it, where spaces “tend towards the more or less coherent systems of non-verbal symbols and signs” (Lefebvre 38-39).
Bachelard writes in his discussion that poetry is the form that provides the writer the capacity to convey a singular emotion in the most coherent way. He says, “by approaching the house images with care not to break up the solidarity of memory and imagination, we may hope to make others feel all the psychological elasticity of an image that moves us at an unimaginable depth” (6). There seems to be some parallel in Bachelard’s constitution of home in a coherent image and Lefebvre’s representational space that focuses on the non-verbal. Veering away from poems, but maintaining the need for a coherent image, pinpointing the representational space could be helpful in looking for an individual or a society’s notion of home as well.
If the characters were portrayed to be displaced from their original homes, then, following Lefebvre’s conceptualization of space there must be material forces that compelled this displacement. An analysis of the spatial practice of the space in which these three people operate must then be done.
Portrayed to be coming from the lowest class among the main characters, Ugwu’s move away from his tribe was motivated by the need to survive. Indeed, his aunt even said in the first paragraph of the first chapter that as long as Ugwu works well, he will eat well (Adichie 1). The vain and social-climbing tendency of Olanna’s parents, on the other hand, is what caused her to drift away from them and their bourgeois interests. She was even portrayed as being objectified by her own parents in order to gain Chief Okonji’s favor for their family’s business (Adichie 33-35). Lastly, Richard’s displacement from his home was of his own decision, which is symptomatic of the unequal development of freedom between a person who came from the center of power and a person who grew up in an empire’s (neo)colony.
Like what has been said a while ago, the recurring theme of daydreams gives evidence to the displacement of the people from a home. This longing for a stable home culminates in the constitution of Republic of Biafra as a heterotopia – an imagined community represented in real space as the space of Southeast Nigeria where the aspirations for home of all the Biafran people converge.
Michel Foucault describes heterotopia as a site in the real world where “all the other real sites that can be found within the culture, are simultaneously represented, contested, and inverted” (24). Biafra, then, becomes the site where each individual’s concept of home and the historical material forces of that time period converge.
As the effects of British neo-colonialism became more apparent in the division between the Northern and Southern parts of Nigeria and among the major tribes (Mustapha 83), people realized that it was necessary to use spatial practice, which dictates how space would manifest itself and in whose favor (Lefebvre 38), in order to appropriate Southeast Nigeria for the benefit of the people who actually live in it and not for the British or the Nigerian bourgeoisie. “Given the situation of backward, Third World capitalism, the solution to the National Question is impossible, except accompanied by fundamental social changes which will necessarily put the question of the social revolution on the nation’s agenda,” Mustapha elaborated (90).
After the coup and the constitution of the Republic of Biafra, this appropriation of space happened in the form of exclusion from Nigeria and autonomous government within Biafra. Supply of goods was somehow communalized and people depended less on money in order to buy food and other necessities and more on the belief that they are united in struggle for liberation from Nigeria.
One cannot say that the mode of production in this kind of society has changed, only simply that the distribution of goods in the level of consumers has become communal. 
In order to make a stable home and provide a space where everyone of its inhabitants benefit, a nation independent of the state of Nigeria (which allows people in Southeast Nigeria, by preserving the capitalist-imperialist spatial practice, to be continuously exploited and oppressed) must be established.
However, Lefebvre says, “the dominant form of space, that of centres of wealth and power, endeavours to mould the spaces it dominates (i.e. peripheral spaces), and it seeks, often by violent means, to reduce the obstacles and resistance it encounters there” (49). The Nigerian state, with assistance from Britain, has painted the Biafran secession as merely a strategic move for the Igbo to gain more political power.  The Igbo were painted as tribal purists who wanted to get rid of other Nigerian nationalities’ hold on the state, when in reality, as Mustafa said, “no socio-political analysis is made to warrant these conclusions. Instead, we are asked to have faith in the conspiracy theory whose results we cannot verify” (91).
If there’s one thing that stood out the most about the novel, it is the mobility of the characters within Southeast Nigeria, especially during the late 1960’s. The constant intervention of the Britain-backed Nigerian state can be seen in the numerous places in which our main characters have gone to. During the course of the Biafran secession, the novel’s main characters never stayed in a single place; but in each place that they have been to, they never failed to try to inhabit it, to establish a new home for them to feel protection. As Mustapha said in his discussion about Nigeria’s colonial period, “an alliance of the three major political parties in the country, and British imperialism working through the Willink Commission, prevented the realisation of the just demands of minority nationalities for states of their own” (88).
Here we see an unfortunate contradiction that shows to us Biafra’s helplessness in the face of an imperialist-backed state such as the Nigerian state. In the first place, it’s the material conditions of the society (those conditions that force people to be slaves or to have toxic family relationships) that compelled the people to imagine a space for home, that is, the Biafran nation. Ironically and unfortunately, this institution is also the reason why the newly constituted Republic of Biafra cannot firmly establish itself.
By attempting to preserve the current spatial practice (the mode of production and the social relations of production), representations of space, “in thrall to both knowledge and power,” become dominant and serves the interests of the elite few once again; “[leaving] only the narrowest leeway to representational spaces” like the concept of home and the struggles of the oppressed majority (Lefebvre 50). Imperialism and the reproduction of capital and profit prevail, without concern for the people inhabiting the “nation,” (supposedly) governed by the state.

ASSESSMENT:

The file I inputted on the Tone Analyzer is a critical essay about an African historical novel, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's "Half of a Yellow Sun," and its notion of home as a space that is constructed because of the different social and political forces at play during the Biafran War.
It would make sense that the language style of my work is at 81% Analytical because it is a critical paper. The paper uses a lot of formal words and transitional phrases in order to have the readers follow the paper logically. There is also 4% Tentativeness, which might be because of several propositions that have been laid out in the paper before making a final conclusion.
As for the emotions, there was a large 56% amount of Joy in my work which surprised me at first. However, upon looking more closely at the analyzer's analysis, I figured out that it was probably because of the words that I used in the first part of my essay when I was justifying the framework I am operating from. It was also probably because a huge chunk of my essay was dedicated to pinpoint the notion of home in the novel, which used words like "memory," "daydream," "dreams," "aspirations," and others.
The second most prominent emotion, in 51 percent, was Sadness. When I checked the results at a sentence level, there were only a few sentences that were highlighted blue. However, upon clicking at individual sentences, I found out that almost all of the sentences and paragraphs had some sadness in it. I wrote the paper in a resigned manner that is accepting of the fact that it is because of imperialism that the Biafran people cannot attain the concept of "home," which is probably why the sad tone is apparent all throughout the text.
The three other emotions were basically in the same percent (8%-11%), which seems true because I did not deliberately put in too much anger, disgust, or fear in the paper (except maybe for anger to imperialism, which manifested more as resignation and sadness).
Regarding the social tendencies, it is only logical that it would score low in extraversion because it is not the nature of a critical paper to be open to social relationships as would, say, a tweet or a facebook post would. The agreeableness, which scored low at 10%, on the other hand, probably stemmed from the assertive and argumentative tone of the paper.
As for the other three indicators (Openness, Conscientiousness, and Emotional Range), it would only make sense that a critical paper scores high on them because the paper needs to be articulate and orderly enough in order to be understood by the readers.
In summary, considering that the text I inputted is a formal one, I believe that the Tone Analyzer analyzed it well.
