SIMPAO, Aldrin F.
LIS 198 – Introduction to Digital Humanities
1st EXAM - Yacking

The text I used for this activity is my journal entry for LIS 181 which can be accessed through the following link: 
https://akosiyno.wordpress.com/2017/07/20/the-ojt-experience-part-2/

My internship, to describe it in few words as possible, is awesome. I got the chance to work under (PLAI) Philippine Librarians 
Association, Inc., under its Executive Vice-President, Mrs. Rhea Rowena Apolinario. My task was a consultancy job for their 
project together with Mr. Manny to build a new library in the UP BLISS village.
At first, we were instructed to research about working spaces and then to make an ocular visit to the site where the library will
be constructed. It is located at the second floor of the Senior Citizen’s office. After that, we were tasked to be create floor
plans and designs for the library.
I’ve made multiple designs, from sketches to 3D rendered designs.
[Image: Initial Sketches]
Initial sketches.
I created my initial sketches prior to the ocular visit. What I had in mind was to visualize and to materialize what my dream 
library would look like.  Then I thought that I could just revise my initial design to suit what the site offers. However, I 
learned that it’s best to create a design catered specifically for the site/purpose. The site has restrictions that part of my 
initial designs had to be removed. Thus I went to just create a new one. And so, came the following designs:
[Images: Floorplan A]
Design 1. The cool-pallet library design.
The site has very limited space and so I asked one of my friends who had a background in arts for help. She told me that cool 
colors make tight spaces look bigger and so, the cool-pallet. The design features multiple tables, 2 sofa sets, a high table and
chair, a waiting area, wall-mounted book shelves, a window-side table for solo/duo. It’s a simple design that suits the site 
since the walls have pillars.
[Images: Floorplan B]
Design 2. The minimalist chocolate-pallet library.

This design is what I liked the most. It features colors similar to that of hotels for that comfy look and feel with cream, 
black, chocolate, and dark red wood furnishings. It has a carpeted area to simulate the living room feels. I’d say this design 
would be like a haven-away-from-home. The book shelves are on some parts of the wall to simulate being surrounded by books. Some
of the furniture could double as chairs and shelves as well although it is not depicted in the screenshots because of the 
limitations of the program. It also features desks for people who do not like interaction with others.
I’d say I have done pretty well in my internship. I have coordinated and communicated well with my supervisor and our client. I 
followed my deadlines and reported to my supervisor on what was happening, what we’ve accomplished, and what we could do. I went
beyond the tasks and suggested to create a simple Collection Development Policy for the library just for them to get a good start.
I asked the client on matters the will affect the design, what the community is composed of, and what specific needs they have.
However, I feel that I still need to improve on my communications skills, and coordinating with my supervisor. Since my hours of
work is an on-call basis, I get messages on my phone about the details and instructions. However, my boarding house has poor 
cellular signal, thus I often receive the messages late. It’s a good thing that my co-intern always informs me whenever I get 
the messages late.
--------------------- End of text -----------------------------

The result of the sentiment analysis from Tone Analyzer is as follows:

EMOTION:
0.59 - Joy

Language Style:
Tentative: 0.71 (Likely)
Analytical: 0.66 (Likely)

Social Tendencies:
Conscientiousness: 0.91 (Very Likely)
Openness: 0.75 (Likely)
Emotional Range: 0.69 (Likely)
 
----------------------------------------------------------------- 
Assessment:
After having tested out multiple texts with differing sentiments, I think I’ve come to figure out a part of how the whole 
sentiment analysis logic works. We know that the English language has levels of emotions and that contributes to how the text 
has been analyzed. 
 
In the same way, there are words that denotes conviction, critical thinking, and uncertainty. The sentence structure is also
considered in the analysis. A sentence that has been constructed firmly is more likely to sound confident.
Sentiment analysis could be utilized in many different ways that I can imagine, from just casual “knowing” to “profiteering”. 
Using this method could help marketers know the collective conscience of the society they are currently in. 
It could be utilized, let say, Event A happened, and of course people, being social media addicts, would love to express 
themselves through multiple means. Given that one has access and collects all Event A-related texts, and have found out that
Event A has made people feel this way, a certain company could make money out of it by providing “Band-Aid solutions”. 
