Katrina Taban
LIS 198


Sentiment Analysis:
The tone analyzer available on the URL https://tone-analyzer-demo.mybluemix.net/ was used to analyze my latest tweets within the month of August (originally I pasted even the tweets from June but apparently the tone analyzer had its limitations with the line of texts to be assessed). Interestingly, the tone analyzer uses the Big Five Personality Traits which happened to be the center of my alternate thesis topic. Additionally, this personality assessment which revolves around five facets (openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and emotional range) is also being given by the UP Office of Guidance and Counseling as a requirement to undergraduate students who wish to change programs.

From my results, it appeared that I am least likely to have the following traits: openness, conscientiousness, extraversion and emotional range. However, my level of agreeableness in the tone analyzer  is really high.

 As someone who is extremely drawn to personality assessment, I remember my results from the UP OCG and from that test result, I had a high level of openness and conscientiousness so I can say that the tone analyzer is not accurate in generally predicting my personality. However, it only had my tweets for the month of August so it is also possible that during this month of stressing out about my thesis topic, I had been less open to new experiences and had been less conscientious than usual. Afterall, my tweets are all about getting stressed and getting excited at the same time.

In terms of emotions, I found it interesting that my tweets are all about sadness and joy. I had a very low score in anger, disgust or fear. Strangely enough, I am always scared about my thesis although I am generally a sanguine person, at least based on the personality test I had taken before. I must say that it is true that I rarely get angry about anything or anyone in particular and therefore my tweets are a good reflection of my thoughts.

Assessment
However, there’s a huge limitation to this tool if we analyze the general motivation behind each person’s tweet. If we are to go into the humanistic level of perception, we will know that to some extent, people actually filter their tweets - although this may not be true for some people. My tweets are readily available to the public and therefore I do not generally post things about family friends, or doctor’s appointments. However, I can observe some of my friends who had their tweets set to “private” and they appear to be more open to blurting out their feelings and personal details of their lives than my friends whose tweets are set to public. Needless to say, I also used my twitter to reach out to people in the professional field just like the time when I reached out to Mr. Nocon of SOFIA for an archives-related concern. I believe that my tweets would make an impact in the professional world so I try to keep them as less personal as possible.

The tool is definitely useful in analyzing the tone of someone’s thoughts within a specific time period. However, one has to be careful in using it to assess the person in general.

Original Text can be found here: https://twitter.com/chibin05

Screenshots are available once file upload is enabled.
