Terence John C. Vesagas
2013-40060
LIS 198 - Digital Humanities

For today's excercise, I decided to use one of the papers that I wrote for my Socio 101 class. The paper was about my reaction to the Japanese movie called "Departures", or おくりびと (Okuribito) in Japanese, which translates to "one who sends off". The movie itself was a very unique take on cultural norms, and how even the delicate matters of life and death become subject to these norms. 
It would be interesting to note that I decided to take a different approach with this paper when I wrote it. Because the movie felt very real and moving, I wanted to retain that same feeling in my writing. Thus, I wrote the entire paper while listening to the original soundtrack that was specifically produced for the movie's story. It would be safe to say that this immersion helped inject much more emotion into this paper compared to the others. 
Relating that writing experience to today's activity of Sentiment Analysis, the tools that we used today really showed much potential. After running the text through the tool, the results that came up still managed to surprise me. While the program detecting the work as "analytical" was expected, what I didn't see coming was the results for the emotions that the program thought it saw in the paper. The results were spot-on. The sad tone of the paper came out, which was expected. What I wasn't expecting was that it also detected happiness. The thing is that while I intended the paper to be serious and a bit dark in tone, I put some positive notes for change and such, but not intending to take away from the dark tone. Looking at how the program ranked the emotions, it came out with sadness having a much stronger tone on the paper, but having this bit of happiness, which in my paper would be the hopefulness in parts of the analysis.
While the tools could still have some work done on them, it's safe to say that this is just one of the many more possiblities we have with these kinds of programs. Prior to this, I actually had a discussion with one of my classmates during the first meeting for DH, where we discussed how these tools could be used to do analysis. One of the issues she brought up was how these systems could account for multiple meanings. I did explain and provided as much information as I could, but even then, it was quite hard to describe what I had in mind without avoiding the use of certain terminology. Today, however, it was nice to see what we talked about manifesting itself as an actual, usable program. The fact that these were highly customizable just enticed them more. Sure, there were still some issues that had to be addressed, such as the subjectivity behind the code that could have influenced certain relations of meaning, but these are just parts of the steps we're taking to really improve and learn more about DH. If anything, it's slowly changing our perception of DH. It's exciting to see how we would be able to apply these tools once we start with our DH projects. 
